Statements

KPI's requirements
The HR department is responsible for monitoring and managing various aspects of employee data to ensure the organization 
maintains a healthy workforce. However, there is lack of clear performance indicators to track and analyze HR metrics. 
Therefore, there is need to design and implement a set of KPIs to address the following points:

1. Employee Count
The HR department lacks visibility into the total number of employees, making it challenging to assess workforce size
and plan for future growth or downsizing effectively

2. Attrition Count
The organization lacks a standardized method to track employee attrition, resulting in incomplete and unreliable data
on the number of employees who have left the organization

3. Attrition Rate
Without a clear measure of attriton rate, the organization can not assess the overall turnover level or compare it with 
industry benchmarks, hindering the ability to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement

4. Active Employees
The organization lacks mechanism to differentiate between active and inactive employees, leading to difficulties in 
accurately assessing the current workflow's productivity and capacity

5. Average Age
The HR department lacks visibility into the average age of employees, making it difficult to evaluate worforce demographics a
succesion planning, and the organization's ability to attract and retain younger talents.

CHART's requirements

1. Attrition by Gender
The HR department faces challenges in understanfing the attrition patterns based on gender, making it difficult to identify
any gender-based disparities and implement targeted retention strategies

2. Department-wise Attrition
The HR department lacks visualization to showcase attrition rates across different departments. This hinders their ability
to identify departments with higher attrition rates and address any underlying issues or concerns effectively.

3. Number of Employess by Age Group
The HR department requires visual representation to analyze the distribution of employees across various age groups. This
helps in assessing workforce demographics, identifying any age-related gaps or imbalances, implementing targeted HR 
policies or programs.

4. Job Satisfaction Ratings
The HR department lacks visualization to represent job satisfaction ratings, hindering their ability to measure employee 
engagement and overall job satisfaction levels effectively.

5. Education Field-wise Attrition
The HR department requires visual representation to analyze attrition rates based on education fields. This helps identify
specific educational backgrounds that may be associated with higher attrition, enabling the organization to tailor 
retention strategies accordingly.

6. Attrition Rate by Gender for Different Age Groups
The HR department lacks visualization that display attrition rates based on gender and different age groups. This makes
it challenging to identify any age and gender-related attrition trends, preventing the organization from implementing 
targeted retention strategies for specific employee segments.


First we will start w/ Tableau....

 1. We are going to analyze KPI. Here we need to create calculated fields for each 5 requirements
 
 2. Connect to Excel file and find connection between Attrition and Employee Count
 
 3.  Create a calculated field (Attrition Count)
	# IF [Attrition] = 'Yes' THEN 1 ELSE 0 END
	# Filter column: Educated
	# Change format of numbers to zero
	# Make 'Education' - Apply to worksheets - Choose All using this Source	
 4. Create a lolipop chart to attrition patterns based on gender
	# Choose gender from tables as ROWS
	# Choose Attrition Count from tables as COLUMNS
	Press Ctrl + slide to make another Attrition Count
 5. Start working on dashboard side by side (name HR Analytics Dashboard)
 6. Create another sheet for Department wise Attrition
	# Department as color and change Marks to Pie
	# Sum of Attrition Count as Labels and Angle
 7. Another sheet for Number of Employee by Age Group
	# Create a new parameter Bin Size
	# Drag Age as a COLUMN, Sum of Employee Count as ROW
 8. Job satisfaction Ratings sheet
	# ROWS: Job Role, sum of Employee Count, COLUMNS: Job satisfaction(Dimensions)
	# Color: employee count
 9. Employee Field wise Attrition
	# ROWS: Education Field, COLUMNS: Sum of Attrition count
 10. Attrtion Rate by Gender for Age Groups
	# Columns: Age Band, Rows: Create a new aggregation like MIN(1) X 2times
	# Color: Gender, ANGLE AND LABEL: sum of Attrition Count

At the end of dashboard create filter of EDUCATION on the top right corner
	
Second, we are going to work on SQL
	# Open PgAdmin4 and create a database named 'hrdata_db'.
	# Create a table within it by writing the column headers
	# Import the raw file 'hrdata.csv'
	# Write the queries for the KPI and CHART requirements that are mentioned above